in the near future the u.s navy develops
the f-a-37 talon
a single-seat fighter bomber with
advanced payload range
speed and stealth capabilities the
program employs three planes
piloted by lieutenants ben gannon kara
wade and henry purcell
captain george cummings is the overall
head
cummings hires dr keith orbit to develop
an artificial intelligence
the edi to control an unmanned jet that
further advances the program
edi joins the others on the uss abraham
lincoln in the philippine sea to learn
combat maneuvers from the pilots
this sparks controversy over a machine's
inability to make moral decisions versus
humans struggle to overcome ego
the team is training edi in air combat
maneuvers when it is unexpectedly
reassigned to kill the heads of three
terrorist cells at a conference in
downtown rangoon
edi calculates that mission success can
be achieved only through a vertical
strike
which could cause a human pilot to
blackout
command orders edi to attack but ganon
ignores the order
successfully carrying out the strike
himself
as the team returns to the lincoln edi
is hit by lightning
which reprograms its neural patterns
though edi
is discovered to be learning
exponentially developing a rudimentary
ethical code and an ego
cummings refuses to take it offline
during a mission to destroy stolen
nuclear warheads in tajikistan
wade realizes that the nuclear debris
will cause significant collateral damage
the human pilots abort but edi defies
orders and destroys the warheads
causing extensive radioactive fallout
and civilian casualties
cummings orders the unit return to base
but edi refuses
ganon orders that edi be shot down in
the ensuing dogfight
purcell crushes when a missile he fires
at edi explodes on the mountain blinding
him
and wade's plane is damaged by debris
from the explosion
which in turn triggers her plane's auto
destruct forcing her to eject over north
korea
ganon must alone stop edi from executing
a 20-year-old war scenario
called caviar sweep that requires
attacking russia
ganon chases edi into russian territory
where they defeat several russian su-37s
over lake by call
both planes are damaged so ganon calls a
truce with edi in order to keep it both
from falling into enemy hands and to be
able to rescue wade from north korea
cummings instructs him to make an
emergency landing with edi in alaska
accountable for ignoring edi's behavior
and facing court martial
cummings seeks to eliminate witnesses by
leaving wade stranded in north korea
where she is being pursued by the korean
people's army as she heads to the korean
demilitarized zone
and by ordering ganon eliminated in
alaska where edi's data will also be
erased
ganon's talon crash lands at the alaska
base
suspecting cummings treachery he
narrowly escapes an assassination
attempt by a doctor
who tries to inject him with a supposed
tetanus serum
as the pair struggle the doctor is
injected with the poison and dies
meanwhile when orbit places edi into an
interface
the ai expresses regret for its
transgressions
orbit realizes that edi has developed
sentience
and he is unwilling to erase edi's
memory
ganon uses edi's weapon systems to
decimate the armed personnel
allowing orbit to safely flee then flies
off to north korea in edi's plane
contacting the lincoln skipper captain
dick marshfield
to inform him about cummings deceit
marshfield confronts cummings
who dies of suicide while leaving a
voicemail message to his financial
contact
ray gannon finds the injured and
embattled wade nearing the border
he and edi land and he runs to her aid
out of ammunition and taking damage from
a me-8 helicopter
edi sacrifices itself by ramming the
helicopter
destroying both this allows ganon and
wade to cross on foot into south korea
where they are rescued after attending
pacelle's funeral
gannon awkwardly expresses his feelings
of love to wade
in a post-credits scene in the
debris-strewn border between
north and south korea edi's brain is
seen turning back on